StockCheck — Project brief and developer build plan

1. Project overview
Project name
StockCheck
Description
An open-source testing package that checks whether a Solana stock-transfer interface transfers the quantity it tells the user it will transfer—including after a scheduled multiplier change.
Target user
A developer adding tokenized-stock support to a wallet interface or application.
The problem
An application can display a multiplier-adjusted stock balance correctly but still use an inconsistent conversion when building a transfer.
On Solana, xStocks distinguishes raw token quantities from multiplier-adjusted displayed quantities. The application must handle that distinction when displaying balances and building transactions.
What StockCheck will do
StockCheck will operate the application’s actual browser interface, capture what it shows the user, execute the application’s transaction on a local Solana environment, and compare the actual token movement with an independent reference.
The product is a reusable test package. The reference application demonstrates it.
It is not a new wallet, trading platform, security audit, or on-chain protocol.

2. The fixed hackathon scope
Required for our submission
Deliverable
What the developer must build
Reference transfer application
A small interface with balance, recipient, amount, Max, review, confirmation, and transaction receipt.
Reusable testing package
Playwright fixtures that operate the interface and run shared stock-quantity checks.
Local Solana environment
Isolated execution using a pinned Token-2022 program and synthetic test tokens.
Stock-specific scenarios
Baseline transfer, activated multiplier, page remaining open across activation, and maximum-balance transfer.
Failure-and-correction demonstration
A deliberately flawed implementation fails for the correct reason; the corrected version passes the same test.
Evidence and documentation
Transaction details, actual account changes, browser trace, reproducible commands, and CI.
Submission materials
Public repository, demonstration video, project description, and clear limitations.

Optional enhancements
A Mosaic integration, an issuer-mint snapshot, additional precision cases, an onboarding benchmark, and a hosted report page would strengthen the entry.
None is a reason to miss the deadline with a working core.
Do not build
Exclude swaps, lending, options, vault accounting, transfer-fee accounting, price feeds, arbitrary transfer hooks, production wallet-extension testing, a new smart contract, and a public service that executes uploaded code.
Support one explicitly selected source token account per transfer. “Max” means that account’s full raw token balance—not every account associated with the wallet.

3. The demonstration the developer is building toward
Use a clearly labeled synthetic token with six decimals and a scheduled multiplier change from 1 to 2.
After activation, the application displays:
Send 2 scaled units
The two application implementations should behave as follows:
Item
Correct implementation
Deliberately faulty implementation
User-approved scaled quantity
2
2
Raw base units transferred
1,000,000
2,000,000
Scaled equivalent of the movement
2
4
Local transaction result
Success
Success
StockCheck verdict
PASS
FAIL

These are illustrative fixture values, not observed mainnet results.
StockCheck must calculate the verdict from the captured interface, actual transaction, and actual local account changes. It must not display a hardcoded failure.
The faulty implementation should genuinely retain the old multiplier after activation. Token-2022’s reference implementation chooses the active multiplier according to the stored activation timestamp and current time.

4. Recommended technology stack
Component
Choice
Main language
TypeScript
Reference interface
React + Vite
Browser testing
Playwright with Chromium
Local Solana runtime
@solana/surfpool
Transaction clients
Solana Kit and the compatible Token-2022 client
Workspace
pnpm
Reports
Playwright HTML report, traces, and attached JSON
CI target
Linux x86-64 first

The Surfpool SDK provides an in-process local runtime. Its documented configuration supports offline operation and transaction-mode block production, which fits this project.
Pin the actual compatible versions after the first successful baseline run. Commit the lockfile, Node version, package-manager version, runtime configuration, and token-program identity.
Do not spend time building multiple runtime backends or promising support for untested operating systems.

5. Architecture
Playwright test + application adapter
                  |
                  v
Actual browser transfer interface
                  |
                  v
Application’s own transaction builder
                  |
                  v
Local test wallet: capture, sign, submit
                  |
                  v
Local Solana / Token-2022 execution
                  |
                  v
Independent quantity checks + account changes
                  |
                  v
Verdict, evidence JSON, report and browser trace
Important separation: the checker must not decide which amount the application transfers.
The application builds its transaction. StockCheck observes and checks it. A transaction constructed entirely by the test runner would test the runtime—not the application.

6. Build the reference application
Use one transfer screen with the following elements:
Element
Required behavior
Test-wallet connection
Connect a disposable wallet funded only in the local environment.
Asset selector
Select the synthetic stock-like test token.
Balance
Show the quantity and its unit convention clearly.
Recipient field
Accept the destination test-wallet address.
Amount field
Accept the user’s quantity as a string.
Max button
Select the source account’s full raw balance.
Review panel
Display quantity, units, mint, and recipient before confirmation.
Confirm button
Use the application’s normal transaction-building path.
Receipt
Show the local transaction result and reference to evidence.

Display “Local test environment — synthetic assets” prominently.
Use separate visible DOM elements for the review amount and unit label. This allows StockCheck to inspect what the interface actually shows rather than reading an invisible “expected result” attribute.
Application modes
Implement a correct mode and two clearly labeled seeded-defect modes:
correct — uses the effective multiplier and correct Max handling.
ignore-activation — deliberately uses the old multiplier after activation.
max-roundtrip — deliberately reconstructs Max from a rounded displayed balance.
These must be real application behavior differences. Do not put a flag in the checker saying “this mode should fail” and manufacture the result.
The checker should identify the error independently.

7. Build the reusable application adapter
The adapter should describe how to operate an application, not how to calculate its expected results.
It should provide:
Adapter responsibility
Example
Navigation
Open the transfer screen.
Wallet connection
Connect the local test wallet.
Input selectors
Identify recipient and amount fields.
Review selectors
Identify visible amount, units, mint, and recipient.
Actions
Click Review, Confirm, and Max.
Declared semantics
State whether the interface uses scaled or unscaled token units.
Capabilities
State whether Max is available.

The adapter must not supply expected raw balances, multiplier calculations, or custom quantity assertions.
The downloadable handoff includes an illustrative TypeScript interface for this boundary.
Support two unit conventions
Scaled mode: user input represents multiplier-adjusted displayed quantities.
Unscaled mode: user input represents ordinary decimal token quantities before the multiplier.
Both can be valid. Solana’s integration guidance distinguishes applications that expose scaled amounts from those that consistently retain unscaled amounts. (Solana)
Do not label an ambiguous interface “unscaled” simply to make a test pass. Capture the actual visible convention; unclear semantics should produce an explicit NOT TESTED result.

8. Implement the independent checks correctly
A. Use precise names for quantities
Use these names throughout the implementation:
Name
Meaning
rawBaseUnits
Integer amount stored and transferred by the token program.
unscaledTokenUnits
Human-readable token quantity before applying a multiplier.
scaledUnits
Multiplier-adjusted displayed quantity.

Keep raw quantities as BigInt. Serialize large integers as decimal strings in reports.
Do not pass raw token balances through JavaScript Number.
B. Use the official conversion behavior as the reference
The checker should obtain its expected conversion independently of the application—for example, by locally simulating the official UiAmountToAmount and AmountToUiAmount instructions against the selected mint and clock phase.
Validate the returned program identity and return-data encoding.
Token-2022’s scaled conversions use floating-point arithmetic and are not guaranteed to round-trip exactly. Do not assume an independently written decimal multiplication exactly reproduces all protocol rounding behavior. (Solana)
The reference conversion can be simulated. The actual application transfer must also be signed and executed locally. Solana’s simulation RPC does not broadcast a transaction, so simulation alone must not be presented as a completed transfer. (Solana)
Start with exactly representable primary test values. Add more rounding cases only with an explicit, documented reference policy.
C. Inspect the actual transaction and accounts
Verify the mint, token-program owner, decimals, source account, destination account, recipient, authority, and transfer amount.
For the initial fee-free supported transfer:
Sender’s raw debit
    = Recipient’s raw credit
    = Executed transfer instruction amount
    = Independently expected raw amount
Allow the necessary recognized setup instructions, such as recipient token-account creation. Reject or mark unsupported any transaction structure the checker cannot interpret.
Exclude self-transfers initially.
Do not infer token movement from SOL balances, which also change because of fees and account creation.
D. Handle Max separately
For Max, independently read the full source-account raw balance. Require that quantity to transfer and the account’s remaining raw token balance to be zero.
Do not derive Max by converting a rounded displayed balance back to raw units. This distinction is explicitly addressed in Solana’s integration guide. (Solana)
E. Do not compare displayed balances across different multipliers
A multiplier change can alter a displayed balance without a transfer.
Therefore, infer movement from raw account changes, then convert that movement under the recorded evaluation state.

9. Implement clock handling deliberately
This is one of the most important engineering details.
The scheduled-activation scenario
Set up the scheduled multiplier before opening the application. Open the page before activation, advance the controlled time, leave the page open, and perform a new transfer after activation.
Do not update the mint at the activation moment. Record its hash before and after to demonstrate that the test is exercising time-based activation rather than reacting to another mint write.
Coordinate browser and chain time
Surfpool’s JSON-RPC time-travel timestamp is in milliseconds, while the chain Clock reports seconds. It also moves forward, so independent backward-time scenarios need fresh environments. (Solana)
Install Playwright clock handling before application timers start. Allow the relevant timers and network responses to run. Freezing an application’s refresh timers and then blaming it for stale state would produce an invalid test. (Playwright)
For primary browser tests, keep the transfer’s review and execution within a stable pre- or post-activation phase.
Test exact T−1, T, and T+1 selection at the reference-conversion layer where necessary. Do not make browser timing unnecessarily fragile.
Signing before activation and landing after activation is outside the first release’s safety claim. We are not building a runtime transaction guard.
A documented temporary refusal or refresh-and-reconfirm flow may be valid behavior. It must not be confused with a quantity mismatch, and the application should subsequently complete the supported transfer.

10. Required test cases
ID
Scenario
Expected result
Q01
Multiplier 1; six decimals; enter 2 scaled units
Transfer 2,000,000 raw base units.
Q02
Active multiplier 2; enter 2 scaled units
Transfer 1,000,000 raw base units.
Q03
Page remains open across scheduled 1→2 activation
Post-activation input, review, and execution remain consistent without a page reload.
Q04
Max with a fractional balance
Transfer the complete source-account raw balance.
Q05
Explicit unscaled-input interface at multiplier 2
Entering 2 unscaled units transfers 2,000,000 raw base units.
Q06
Seeded old-multiplier defect
Produce a genuine quantity-mismatch failure with transaction evidence.
Q07
Seeded Max round-trip defect
Detect residual raw tokens for a verified rounding fixture.
Q08
Missing RPC, missing receipt, or unsupported operation
Explicit NOT TESTED or UNSUPPORTED—not PASS.

Also unit-test malformed quantity strings, wrong mint or recipient, missing reference data, altered transaction messages, and raw-integer serialization.
Keep deliberate specimen failures separate from CI failure
The faulty application should genuinely receive a StockCheck FAIL.
The package’s own test can then assert:
“The checker correctly detected this seeded defect.”
That allows CI to pass while preserving the specimen’s failure. Do not convert a detected bad transfer into a compatibility PASS.

11. Report format
The report should explain the mismatch before showing technical logs.
Example format:
FAIL — DISPLAYED_QUANTITY_MISMATCH

Scenario: multiplier active at 2
Approved quantity: 2 scaled units

Expected raw movement: 1,000,000
Observed sender debit: 2,000,000
Observed recipient credit: 2,000,000
Observed scaled equivalent: 4

Transaction: succeeded on LOCAL test runtime
Fixture: synthetic
Application defect: deliberately seeded
Each case should retain the application and adapter version, fixture identity, runtime/program identity, timestamps, captured review text, transaction message and receipt, expected conversion, raw account changes, verdict, and reproduction information.
Use these statuses consistently:
PASS — a supported case ran and satisfied the checks.
FAIL — a supported case violated an assertion.
UNSUPPORTED — the operation is outside declared coverage.
NOT TESTED — necessary evidence or execution was unavailable.
Show skipped coverage separately.
Use Playwright’s report and trace viewer with attached JSON and screenshots. Its trace viewer already supports inspecting browser actions, DOM snapshots, logs, and network activity. A separate analytics dashboard is unnecessary.

12. Repository structure and developer commands
Suggested structure:
stockcheck/
  apps/reference/
  packages/core/
  packages/playwright/
  packages/runtime/
  packages/test-wallet/
  adapters/reference/
  adapters/mosaic/          # optional
  fixtures/synthetic/
  fixtures/captured/        # optional
  tests/unit/
  tests/e2e/
  scripts/
  docs/
  .github/workflows/ci.yml
  README.md
  THIRD_PARTY_NOTICES.md
  LICENSE
Implement these commands as part of the project:
pnpm install --frozen-lockfile
pnpm exec playwright install --with-deps chromium

pnpm demo
pnpm test:unit
pnpm test:e2e
pnpm test:specimens
pnpm report

# Only when the optional adapter exists:
pnpm test:mosaic
These are commands the developer must create, not commands for an existing published StockCheck package.
The normal required suite must return a nonzero result when a required assertion fails or mandatory coverage cannot run.
Keep disposable keys and temporary runtime state out of Git.

13. Optional external integration: Mosaic
Mosaic’s public web transfer function delegates to its SDK transaction builder, making it a concrete application path to investigate. I have verified that path exists; I have not executed a StockCheck integration against it.
For this enhancement, pin a commit, establish the intended unit convention, document any environment changes, and run the relevant shared scenarios.
A raw-mode pass does not demonstrate scaled-input coverage. A modified fork must be labeled as modified. Do not claim an upstream bug, endorsement, or adoption without evidence.
Make a bounded integration attempt once the core flow works. If it remains incomplete, submit the core and disclose that boundary.
An optional captured issuer-mint profile should likewise distinguish unchanged captured mint bytes from synthetic local funding and clock changes. It is local compatibility evidence—not a real-money transfer or issuer permission.

14. Build schedule
Date
Deliverable
September 19–20
Workspace, offline runtime, synthetic mint, reference interface, actual browser-originated transfer, and independent raw-balance check.
September 21
Scheduled activation and a genuine failure/correction pair. Begin the optional external integration without delaying the core.
September 22
Max, unscaled positive control, scenario isolation, and evidence output.
September 23
Clean-machine CI, seeded-defect tests, error handling, and optional integration evidence.
September 24
Freeze features, finish documentation, record the demonstration, and prepare the first complete submission.
September 25
Reproduction checks, working-link checks, and submission edits before closing.

Finding an application mismatch is not a reason to stop. Verify it, preserve the evidence, and demonstrate the correction. Fix checker defects as normal development work.

15. Submission deliverables and definition of done
The developer should hand over:
Item
Required contents
Public repository
Source, pinned dependencies, license, reused-component disclosures, and working instructions.
Runnable core
Reference app, local runtime, reusable fixture package, and mandatory scenarios.
Evidence
JSON results, browser traces/screenshots, actual local transaction/account data, and a curated example report.
Demonstration video
Approximately three minutes showing the user action, mismatch, evidence, correction, and activation/Max behavior.
Submission text
User, problem, actual shipped scope, Solana relevance, contribution, limitations, and working links.

The core is finished when another developer can follow the instructions, reproduce the successful transfer, reproduce the seeded failure, and rerun the corrected behavior.
For public presentation, a static page hosting the recorded report, video, and reproduction instructions is sufficient for our plan. Label recorded evidence accurately; do not imply that clicking through it executes a fresh test.
Submission description to adapt to the shipped build
StockCheck is an open-source regression-testing package for Solana stock-transfer interfaces. It runs browser actions against a local Solana environment and compares the displayed quantity with the application’s actual transaction and token-account changes across controlled multiplier scenarios.
The project includes a reusable fixture package, reference application, and reproducible failure-and-correction evidence. Test events and balances are synthetic. StockCheck is development tooling, not a mainnet safety certification.

Developer’s first task
Create the workspace, boot the offline runtime, create one six-decimal synthetic Scaled UI Amount token, and complete one signed transfer originating from the browser interface; with the sender and recipient raw balances recorded.
Build StockCheck’s checks around that real path. Finish the core, add optional evidence where practical, and submit the working project.

